Making policy more inclusive in a digital age: lessons from those on the cutting edge Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Making policy more inclusive in a digital age: lessons from those on the cutting edge March 23, 2022 This page in: Image: Metamorworks/Shutterstock The Tony Blair Institute has been convening a series of roundtables to enable changemakers from around the world to share insights on policy areas that are at the forefront of the 21st century development agenda. Examples of recent roundtables include  In January, The Tony Blair Institute hosted a roundtable in collaboration with the   and the Government of Rwanda’s Policy Lab on inclusive policymaking for the 21st century. The discussion brought together policymakers from two international organizations and six national policy labs—teams specifically set up within governments to explore innovative approaches to public policymaking. The aim of this discussion was to look at how new tools and more connected populations were changing the ways governments design public policy, and to enable changemakers from around the world to learn from one another. This blog consolidates some of the key insights from the discussion. What does Inclusive Policymaking in the 21st Century mean? The 21st century brings new policy challenges as well as new tools for addressing them. More connected populations and better tech tools should enable governments to engage citizens better in developing and shaping policy, leading to more representative and people-driven approaches. With this in mind, ‘inclusive policymaking’ can include building representative technology policy, using data to design more inclusive policy, and using new technology-driven methods to engage citizens in policymaking. It also became clear from the roundtable that adapting policymaking for a digital age is as much about diffusing innovation within governments as it is bringing different voices into the policymaking process. But shifting ways of working takes time, and requires convincing leaders to invest in new processes, data, and technology. Five lessons from innovators within governments Start with a deep understanding of the challenge and the users  For example, before investing in advanced EdTech, governments should understand the state of play for learners and the educational environment. What educational level are learners operating at? Can technology assist with getting learners to the level they should be operating at? If so, based on your understanding of digital access in this setting, how would that best be scaled? Importantly, it does not need to be the ‘shiniest’ tool and could be relatively low-tech. While being ambitious is admirable, participants of the roundtable in January were clear that for innovations to be most effective, innovations ought to be tailored to the context. A “one size fits all” approach does not work. A solution from one country or context might not work in another. Experiment and pilot All the more mature labs emphasized the importance of early experimentation with products or processes to test and see what works. When new innovations are developed, the intricacies of implementation are not always fully understood in the initial stage. They recommended not to immediately implement at a large scale, but to test the approach with select pilots and evaluate. This applies to processes within the lab as well as the tools they roll out across governments. It is also important to create an environment that allows innovations to thrive when they do work. It is equally important to have an environment where failure is accepted and there is a clear mechanism to learn from those failures and build upon. When a new technology does come along, governments need to ensure they are able to advance and adopt the tech as quickly as possible. Photo: © Arne Hoel / The World Bank Think about what makes innovations ‘stick’ within governments Multiple participants emphasized how important it is to understand the broader context of the policy problem they have been tasked with solving. Participants noted that more often than not, they had treated some innovations as akin to ‘copy and paste’ – they adopt an innovation, supplant it into government without fully considering its implications on the government’s workflow or adoption. They did not have a full understanding of where this innovation might work, under what conditions it would continue to work, and where would it not work. A key lesson was to take a step back and explore what would make these kinds of data and tech-driven innovations ‘stick’ within government.  As policy labs and inclusive policymaking processes mature, they should aim to move from working as an almost separate entity to embedding systemic change within the government. There’s a path that policy labs need to go through, which is an initial experimentation phase to find the process that best works for a particular context, and then move from ad hoc initiatives to finally making the policy lab’s processes a systemic part of the government’s policymaking. Success could look like policy labs becoming obsolete because the processes will be mainstreamed. Involve a range of disciplines, skillsets, and problem-solving methodologies Some labs reported initially focusing too much on particular skill sets such as data and analytics. As the labs matured, they found that they needed to diversify their skill sets to allow for a more sophisticated diagnosis of policy problems and therefore solutions. This is also consistent with the methods of design thinking, which other participants highlighted the merits of in inclusive policymaking. Design thinking, a growing movement within the policymaking space, looks at how to create meaningful user-centered experiences. It involves thinking more closely about who the users are, what their journeys look like, and where the pain points are. Going beyond getting user feedback, this approach recognizes the value of collective intelligence, and that the user of a service would be well-placed to generate insights and to co-create ways to improve their user experience. Armed with this understanding, innovators can use a range of digital tools to ensure that they engage appropriately with the right stakeholders. Establish a stronger, more collaborative relationship between the public and private sector The role of the private sector in bringing innovation and more inclusive policymaking to the government is enormous. Policy labs frequently articulated how a part of their objective is to create an environment that makes partnerships between the public and private sectors much more seamless. However, this is not always straightforward. In one country, private tech companies preferred to develop relations with the policy lab directly, and not other branches of the government. Alternatively, there were situations in which governments had not fostered relationships with start-ups but worked closely with bigger tech companies, so the spectrum of solutions was more limited. For policymaking to be more innovative and inclusive, it needs to establish a much stronger culture of co-creation between the public and private sectors. This means surfacing new and interesting govtech start-ups as well as benefitting from the capacity and scalability of big technology organizations. If you are an innovator in government or even if you are not, and have thoughts you would like to share on any of the above, please do get in touch at  [email protected] [email protected] Useful resources for policy labs:  Senior Policy Analyst, Technology and public policy, Tony Blair Institute for Global Change Policy Lead, Technology and public policy, Tony Blair Institute for Global Change [email protected] Team Leader, Data Use and Literacy Program Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  From local prices to the global economy: how data from the International Comparison Program help us monitor progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  From local prices to the global economy: how data from the International Comparison Program help us monitor progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals March 17, 2022 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] At the recent   of the United Nations Statistical Commission (UNSC), the Chief Statisticians of national statistical offices (NSOs) highlighted the importance of purchasing power parities (PPPs) and other   (ICP) results in analyzing the global economy. They also noted countries’ progress in incorporating the ICP data collection and compilation into the day-to-day work of NSOs. The ICP’s important contribution to monitoring progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was also recognized. This blog explains how PPPs and ICP data, and the indicators they enable, help countries track their progress towards the UN’s 2030 Agenda by showcasing content from the World Bank’s recent publication, “Purchasing power parities for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the International Comparison Program” (available as an  Through 70 innovative visualizations and discussions, the guide showcases the wide-ranging applications of PPPs, price levels, and other ICP outputs. It illustrates that the price and expenditure data collected and compiled by nearly 180 national statistical offices not only provide a critical and comprehensive view of the  , but also directly benefit countries’ development and domestic policy agendas, including their commitments to the SDGs. These benefits of the publication were confirmed at the UNSC as well, where the Chief Statisticians   as a vital tool in demonstrating the use of ICP results to measure the effectiveness of domestic policies, compare the performance of economies, and track development and progress over time. 
The guide features ICP data relevant to the following SDGs: Goal 1 (No Poverty) The guide examines these intertwined goals by monitoring the prevalence of poverty through the use of the   expressed in PPP terms, as well as through PPP-based metrics of  Goal 2 (Zero Hunger) and Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) Ensuring decent work and economic growth for people is key to ending hunger. The guide demonstrates how indicators on   inform progress towards Goal 8. Moreover, the realization of this SDG can be measured through Goal 2-related data on   and productivity of small-scale food producers. The guide also includes a chapter on  , showing the use of how ICP data inform studies on how income and prices influence dietary patterns, the prevalence of undernutrition and overnutrition or obesity, and the gap in healthy and nutritious diets between rich and poor. Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), Goal 4 (Quality Education), and Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) Good health and access to quality education are essential in ensuring productive lives. The guide looks at the use of PPPs in Goal 3 through its examination of the  . Goal 3 also includes PPP-based GDP per capita as an input into its indicator based on a modeled estimate of  . In terms of Goal 4, the guide looks at   to examine the impacts of investment in students’ learning and development. Goal 11 also recently introduced PPP-based estimates for  Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) Countries are committed to making energy efficiency measures a policy and investment priority through Goal 7. The  , defined as the ratio of energy supply to PPP-based GDP, is the official indicator for this objective. Similarly, carbon dioxide emissions per unit of PPP-based GDP is used by Goal 9 to monitor   and progress to more sustainable, efficient, and environmentally clean production activity. Goal 9 also seeks to encourage innovation and substantially increase the number of researchers, as well as public and private spending on research and experimental development. Expressing   in PPP terms allows comparisons between sectors, countries, and over time. 
To ensure it showcases the most relevant datasets on each of the SDGs featured, the guide was prepared in collaboration with ICP  , and draws on data produced by organizations under the UN umbrella and others, including Eurostat; the Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Energy Agency; the International Labour Organization; the International Monetary Fund; the International Telecommunication Union; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; the United Nations Development Programme; the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; the World Economic Forum; the World Health Organization as well as the World Bank. We anticipate that over the coming months and years, PPPs and ICP data will be increasingly applied to analyses and studies supporting the SDGs as well as in complementary and official indicators. Furthermore, price and expenditure data are already being collected and compiled for our next set of ICP results for reference year 2021, which are scheduled for release by end 2023. These results will shed light on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic across the global economy, including its impact on progress towards meeting the SDGs. For more information, watch World Bank Lead Economist Nada Hamadeh’s presentation at the UN’s World Data Forum in October 2021 “ Lead Economist and Program Manager, World Bank Statistician, Development Data Group, World Bank Senior Statistician, International Comparison Program (ICP) Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Economic impact of a second lockdown in Uganda: results from the seventh round of the High-Frequency Phone Survey Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Economic impact of a second lockdown in Uganda: results from the seventh round of the High-Frequency Phone Survey March 15, 2022 This page in:  ROMEDIA/Shutterstock The Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS) continues to monitor the impact of COVID-19 on the socio-economic wellbeing of the national population through the Uganda High-Frequency Phone Survey (UHFPS). The financing for data collection and technical assistance has been provided by the World Bank and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). The survey recontacts households that had phone numbers for at least one household member or a reference individual from the Uganda National Panel Survey (UNPS) 2019/20. The first round of the survey was conducted in June 2020, while the latest seventh round was conducted in October/November 2021 after the second lockdown was introduced in June 2021. This blog highlights selected findings on the economic impacts of the COVID-19 related measures from the latest round. Where possible we also compare the impacts from two different lockdowns introduced in March 2020 and June 2021 by using the data from rounds 1 and 7 conducted after the lockdowns. The first most important indicator we looked at was employment.   This is likely due, at least in part, to the economic consequences of the lockdown imposed in June 2021 during the second COVID-19 wave. However, this decline was less pronounced relative to the drop in June 2020 after the first lockdown in June 2020 (figure 1). The incidence of work stoppages reported in October/November 2021 were also more universally distributed compared to June 2020 when work stoppages concentrated in urban areas and in the services sector. As shown in figure 2, most work stoppages after the first lockdown were in non-agriculture sectors, while more than 50% of work stoppages after the second lockdown occurred in the agriculture sector. We have also found that work stoppages in October/November 2021 were to a less extent associated with COVID-19 related restrictions compared to stoppages in June 2020. It may be related to the strictness of the first lockdown which was shorter, but tighter than the second one. In addition, higher work stoppages in the agricultural sector can be related to seasonality and prolonged dry spells observed in different parts of the country in 2021.   Figure 1. Respondents working during last seven days across rounds, % of all respondents  UHFPS, authors’ calculations Figures are based on the same respondents across rounds. 
Figure 2. Work stoppages by economic sector, % of respondents who stopped working  UHFPS, authors’ calculations Figures are based on the same respondents across rounds.  As shown in figure 3, the share of households with non-farm family businesses that were open declined from 43% to 41%, reversing the positive trend observed in previous rounds. The magnitude of closures was much smaller than in June 2020 after the first lockdown. However, many operating businesses reported less revenues in October/November 2021 compared to the previous round (figure 4). Specifically, family business revenues were lower for 65% of households compared to revenues in March/April 2021. Revenue losses were particularly pronounced in businesses operating in the services sectors. Figure 3. Status of non-farm family business across rounds, % of households  UHFPS, authors’ calculations Figures are based on the same respondents across rounds. Figure 4. Family non-farm businesses reporting less revenues compared to previous round, % of households with family non-farm businesses  UHFPS, authors’ calculations Figures are based on the same respondents across rounds. Consistent with the negative trends observed in the labor market in October/November 2021, food security in Uganda deteriorated notably in this period as well. Figure 5 presents the dynamics of the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES) indices across different rounds of the UHFPS. After a long period of relatively low food insecurity between September/October 2020 and March/ April 2021, the situation has drastically changed in recent months. Food insecurity increased dramatically in October/November 2021 in all regions, with almost half of households reporting that their family members were moderately insecure and 12% reporting family members being severely food insecure at the national level. In the first round of the UHFPS, food security was measured only for adult members of the household. Comparable FIES indices were constructed for the seventh round. It turns out that food insecurity was higher in October/November 2021 compared to June 2020. This could be related to higher work stoppages in the agriculture sector and rural areas associated with floods and dry spells recorded in the second season of 2020 and the first season of 2021. Figure 5. Evolution of severe and moderate composite FIES index across all rounds, % of household members  UHFPS, authors’ calculations Figures are based on the same households across rounds. If you are interested to learn more about findings from the seventh round of the UHFPS please check the brief  , while the microdata and related documentation are freely accessible at the World Bank’s Microdata Catalog  The members of the team working on the Uganda High-Frequency Phone Survey on COVID-19 (listed in alphabetical order for each institution) are: UBOS: Henry Mubiru, Andrew Mupere, Vincent Ssennono; World Bank: Aziz Atamanov (Poverty and Equity GP), Frederic Cochinard (LSMS), John Ilukor (LSMS), Talip Kilic (LSMS), and Giulia Ponzini (LSMS). Senior Economist, Poverty Global Practice Consultant, Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS), World Bank Economist, Development Data Group, World Bank [email protected] Senior Economist Economist,  Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  How data can accelerate equality Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  How data can accelerate equality March 08, 2022 This page in: Over the last decade, maternal mortality has decreased and girls’ enrollment in secondary school has considerably increased, but many discriminatory laws in 178 countries which host 2.4 billion working-age women hold them back from fully participating in the economy. In the last two years, as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, significantly fewer Ugandan girls than boys returned to school after pandemic-related closures, and a majority of Bangladeshi girls have reported spending less time on education. For an interactive version of the visual, visit the World Bank   WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, World Bank Group, and the United Nations Population Division. Trends in Maternal Mortality: 2000 to 2017. Geneva, World Health Organization, 2019. Data retrieved from World Bank  We know about these and many other advancements and setbacks in the lives of women and girls because we have relevant gender data that provide these crucial insights. Gender data are a form of women and girls’ empowerment and knowing how to read and act on these data can accelerate gender equality. This is why it is important to present gender data in an easily accessible and actionable format that is useful to different stakeholders, from policymakers and gender advocates to researchers and journalists.   The World Bank Group has redesigned its   with these audiences in mind by offering over 900 gender indicators in different formats, ranging from raw data to appealing visualizations and stories.   It will highlight existing gender gaps as well as gaps in the availability of gender data.  For the full story, visit the World Bank  International Labour Organization, ILOSTAT database. Data retrieved from World Bank  Despite efforts to improve gender statistics, there are still large gaps in existing gender data. The World Bank Group has scaled up commitments and expanded partnerships to improve the collection, access, sharing, and use of sex-disaggregated data over the last several years. We are also investing in several statistical operations to expand the availability of gender data and close different types of data gaps that arise as outlined below. For example, the   project aims to close gender data gaps in national statistical systems through direct partnerships with 12 national statistical offices over the next two years to increase the availability, quality, and relevance of gender data related to men’s and women’s economic outcomes. Data gaps arise due to various reasons… …and require a holistic approach to be narrowed and closed World Bank Strengthening Gender Statistics Project This initiative capitalizes on the Bank’s recent efforts, such as the  , which are designed to improve the availability and quality of individual-disaggregated survey data on economic outcomes, including asset ownership and control, employment, and entrepreneurship. Beyond data collection, the   initiative seeks to develop improved survey methods for measuring men’s and women’s control over assets, time use, and agency while the Women’s Empowerment Metric for National Statistical Systems (WEMNS) is developing a scale and associated fieldwork protocols to measure empowerment at the individual level in national household and farm surveys (including those supported by the  ). These additional data will be added to the Gender Data Portal as they become available. This endeavor could not be timelier, considering the world still has a way to go to achieve gender equality, especially now as countries work towards economic recovery. Data also show that the COVID-19 pandemic has hit women much harder than men and that women risk losing many hard-won gains.   If these gender gaps were addressed, the world could achieve a  , which is nearly two times the world’s annual GDP. This is why leveraging more and better gender data and statistics is vital to effectively direct resources toward designing policies that can improve the lives of both women and men. We have designed the Gender Portal to be useful to different audiences. Our primary goal is to reach policymakers to use gender data for evidence-based policymaking. But we also wanted to ensure that gender data are accessible to other stakeholders, such as civil society organizations, researchers, data specialists, and journalists, who can engage with these data, relaying them further to their constituents and communities so that new gender conversations can spark policy discussions and reforms.  Gender data can be the evidence that policymakers need to put in place inclusive, gender-sensitive policies that will allow girls and women to achieve their full potential, to Accelerate Equality!  [email protected] Director, Development Economics Data Group, World Bank Group Global Director, Gender Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Commodity prices surged in February—Pink Sheet Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Commodity prices surged in February—Pink Sheet March 07, 2022 This page in:  is a monthly report that monitors commodity price movements. Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Hazel Macadangdang Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  An observation of external debt interest payments after global crises Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  An observation of external debt interest payments after global crises March 01, 2022 This page in: The recently published   highlighted the rise in external debt stocks of low- and middle-income countries at end-2020, reflecting mainly the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The combined debt stock of low- and middle-income countries increased by 5.3%, while for many countries in the group, the rise was at double digits. However, as the interest rates plunged to record lows, the interest payments arising from external debt liabilities dropped over the same period. This trend seems analogous to what we observed right after the 2008 global financial crisis—albeit forming at a higher level.  Similarly, the interest payments of the same group of countries declined by 8.9% to $118 billion from $129 billion in 2009, following the global financial crisis. Trends are analogous when the data on low- and middle-income countries are disaggregated by geographical regions.  In East Asia and Pacific Region, the payments declined by 2.1% and 17.2% in 2020 and 2009, respectively. In Latin America and the Caribbean, the drop was more significant during the recent crisis. The interest payments decreased by 20.4% in 2020, compared to the 10.9% decline in 2009. In Europe and Central Asia Region, total interest payments decreased only slightly—by 0.1% in 2020, while the decline was 2.4% in the aftermath of the global financial crisis. In Middle East and North Africa, similar to the Latin America and Caribbean Region, the decline was more significant during the recent crisis. The total payments dropped by 23.5% in 2020, whereas it increased by 9.3% in 2009. In South Asia, in both crises, the plunge was substantial. The interest payments on external debt decreased by more than 20% after the onset of both crises. Finally, in Sub-Saharan Africa, interest payments declined by 6.7% in 2020 and about 17% in 2009. Interest Payments on External Debt (US$) – Geographical Regions When the analysis is broken down to the creditor level, the story is slightly different. Although low- and middle-income countries were able to contain their interest burden right after the global crisis, for the portion of the debt that they contracted from China, the interest payments did not decrease in 2009. On the contrary, it marked an increase of 24% from 2008 to 2009, which is the period when a significant drop was observed in interest payments to other creditors. Unlike in 2009, interest payments to China dropped right after the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, as in the case of other creditors. China has recently become the world’s largest official creditor to the emerging markets, based on the analysis of   of the Chinese Balance of Payments (BOP) data. However, its lending terms are distinct from that of other large official creditors such as the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The concessional loans extended by these creditors carry lower rates, by definition, whereas China is known to offer higher lending rates. Besides, China was lending at fixed rates predominantly until recently. In order for the borrowers to benefit from the overall decline of the policy rates in the aftermath of the crisis, these loans should bear variable lending rates. In 2008, the weight of variable-rate loans of low- and middle-income countries from China was only 18.5% while this ratio was 52% for all creditors combined. Chinese lending rates gradually shifted from fixed rates to variable rates after the global financial crisis. Starting from 2015, the share of variable rate loans reached around 45%, which is comparable to that of other creditors. Thanks to this jump, the pandemic-driven plunge in global interest rates has resulted in a proportional decline in interest payments from low-and middle-income countries to China. Share of Variable Rate Loans from China – Low- and Middle-Income Countries Overall, when China is excluded, the data demonstrate that interest payments arising from external debt liabilities of low- and middle-income countries decreased sharply right after both crises. Although the debt stock of those countries continued to rise during both episodes, low levels of interest rates globally helped them to lower their interest burden. However, the data also depict that right after 2009, the trend in declining interest payments reversed very quickly. In 2010, the interest payments of low- and middle-income countries combined rose by 21%. Furthermore, systemically low interest rates incentivized not only households and firms, but also governments to borrow more during this period. This put an additional burden on the debt stocks which were already inflated by the stagnant global growth as well as the stimulus packages introduced by governments across the globe. Today,   The fact that China has also started to lend in variable rates more might exacerbate the bounce back in interest payments in tandem with the projected recovery in global lending rates. Consultant, Development Data Group (DECDG), World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  From local prices to the global economy: how data from the International Comparison Program help us monitor progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  From local prices to the global economy: how data from the International Comparison Program help us monitor progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals March 17, 2022 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] At the recent   of the United Nations Statistical Commission (UNSC), the Chief Statisticians of national statistical offices (NSOs) highlighted the importance of purchasing power parities (PPPs) and other   (ICP) results in analyzing the global economy. They also noted countries’ progress in incorporating the ICP data collection and compilation into the day-to-day work of NSOs. The ICP’s important contribution to monitoring progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) was also recognized. This blog explains how PPPs and ICP data, and the indicators they enable, help countries track their progress towards the UN’s 2030 Agenda by showcasing content from the World Bank’s recent publication, “Purchasing power parities for policy making: a visual guide to using data from the International Comparison Program” (available as an  Through 70 innovative visualizations and discussions, the guide showcases the wide-ranging applications of PPPs, price levels, and other ICP outputs. It illustrates that the price and expenditure data collected and compiled by nearly 180 national statistical offices not only provide a critical and comprehensive view of the  , but also directly benefit countries’ development and domestic policy agendas, including their commitments to the SDGs. These benefits of the publication were confirmed at the UNSC as well, where the Chief Statisticians   as a vital tool in demonstrating the use of ICP results to measure the effectiveness of domestic policies, compare the performance of economies, and track development and progress over time. 
The guide features ICP data relevant to the following SDGs: Goal 1 (No Poverty) The guide examines these intertwined goals by monitoring the prevalence of poverty through the use of the   expressed in PPP terms, as well as through PPP-based metrics of  Goal 2 (Zero Hunger) and Goal 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) Ensuring decent work and economic growth for people is key to ending hunger. The guide demonstrates how indicators on   inform progress towards Goal 8. Moreover, the realization of this SDG can be measured through Goal 2-related data on   and productivity of small-scale food producers. The guide also includes a chapter on  , showing the use of how ICP data inform studies on how income and prices influence dietary patterns, the prevalence of undernutrition and overnutrition or obesity, and the gap in healthy and nutritious diets between rich and poor. Goal 3 (Good Health and Well-Being), Goal 4 (Quality Education), and Goal 11 (Sustainable Cities and Communities) Good health and access to quality education are essential in ensuring productive lives. The guide looks at the use of PPPs in Goal 3 through its examination of the  . Goal 3 also includes PPP-based GDP per capita as an input into its indicator based on a modeled estimate of  . In terms of Goal 4, the guide looks at   to examine the impacts of investment in students’ learning and development. Goal 11 also recently introduced PPP-based estimates for  Goal 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and Goal 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) Countries are committed to making energy efficiency measures a policy and investment priority through Goal 7. The  , defined as the ratio of energy supply to PPP-based GDP, is the official indicator for this objective. Similarly, carbon dioxide emissions per unit of PPP-based GDP is used by Goal 9 to monitor   and progress to more sustainable, efficient, and environmentally clean production activity. Goal 9 also seeks to encourage innovation and substantially increase the number of researchers, as well as public and private spending on research and experimental development. Expressing   in PPP terms allows comparisons between sectors, countries, and over time. 
To ensure it showcases the most relevant datasets on each of the SDGs featured, the guide was prepared in collaboration with ICP  , and draws on data produced by organizations under the UN umbrella and others, including Eurostat; the Food and Agriculture Organization, the International Energy Agency; the International Labour Organization; the International Monetary Fund; the International Telecommunication Union; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; the United Nations Development Programme; the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; the World Economic Forum; the World Health Organization as well as the World Bank. We anticipate that over the coming months and years, PPPs and ICP data will be increasingly applied to analyses and studies supporting the SDGs as well as in complementary and official indicators. Furthermore, price and expenditure data are already being collected and compiled for our next set of ICP results for reference year 2021, which are scheduled for release by end 2023. These results will shed light on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic across the global economy, including its impact on progress towards meeting the SDGs. For more information, watch World Bank Lead Economist Nada Hamadeh’s presentation at the UN’s World Data Forum in October 2021 “ Lead Economist and Program Manager, World Bank Statistician, Development Data Group, World Bank Senior Statistician, International Comparison Program (ICP) Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  The size of the Asia and the Pacific economy based on purchasing power parities: results from the International Comparison Program Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  The size of the Asia and the Pacific economy based on purchasing power parities: results from the International Comparison Program April 08, 2021 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] Since the publication of the 2017 International Comparison Program’s (ICP)   for 176 economies in May 2020, the program’s   have released results and analyses covering the economies participating in their respective regions. These regional programs are the building blocks of the global program, and in this series of region-focused blogs, we highlight each to explore how the ICP is organized regionally, what the regional ICP results tell us, and what’s in store as we launch the ICP 2021 cycle.  (ADB) has been the ICP regional implementing agency for Asia and the Pacific since the ICP 2005 cycle. ADB first released the 2017 regional ICP   in May 2020, covering the 22 participating economies in the region. This was followed by a   in October 2020 detailing the methodology used and presenting estimates of 2017 and revised 2011 purchasing power parities (PPPs), total and per capita measures of PPP-based GDP and its component expenditures, and price level indexes (PLIs) showing the relative cost of living for each economy. These publications, along with a comprehensive database, are accessible via the  , as well as via the   which features interactive visualizations, an ICP  , and regional ICP  A snapshot of the Asia and the Pacific economy in 2017 The Asia and the Pacific region covers a unique and diverse group of economies that represent a microcosm of the globe: it includes some of the world’s most populous economies, as well as very small island economies, and landlocked economies. They also range from lower-middle-income to high-income economies with widely varying statistical capacities. The 22 economies that participated in the ICP 2017 Asia and the Pacific comparison were Bangladesh; Bhutan; Brunei Darussalam; Cambodia; China; Fiji; Hong Kong SAR, China; India; Indonesia; the Lao PDR; Malaysia; Maldives; Mongolia; Myanmar; Nepal; Pakistan; Philippines; Singapore; Sri Lanka; Taiwan, China; Thailand; and Vietnam. Given the region’s shares of the global economy and population, Asia and the Pacific is a key contributor to the global ICP. The chart below shows that the region accounted for more than half of the world’s population in 2017. It also compares the region’s contribution to the global economy when measured using PPPs and market exchange rates (MERs). PPPs account for the different price levels between economies of traded products and non-traded products and thus provide a measure of the difference in economic outputs or volumes, while MER-based conversions take no account of price differences in non-traded goods and thus reflect differences in both volume and prices in comparisons of economic size. The chart below shows PPP-based GDP for the region accounted for around a third of the global economy, while the MER-based GDP measure resulted in Asia and the Pacific accounting for less than a quarter of the global economy in 2017. The chart also shows the PPP-based and MER-based measures of total actual individual consumption (AIC), which reflects expenditure on goods and services consumed by households, and total gross fixed capital formation (GFCF), reflecting investment. PPP-based GFCF in Asia and the Pacific accounted for over 40% of the global total, while PPP-based AIC accounted for just less than 30%. These three PPP-based expenditure aggregates show that the global shares of Asia and the Pacific are much larger when price level differences are taken into account. Highlights of the 2017 ICP Asia and the Pacific Results The chart below plots the PLI at the level of GDP for all economies against their PPP-based GDP per capita, with the size of each bubble representing PPP-based GDP. It shows that the richer economies tend to have the higher price levels. Among the 22 economies in the region, only Hong Kong SAR, China has a PLI higher than the world average (set to 100). Hover over the interactive chart to see the data. Three economies in the Asia and the Pacific region were among the largest in the world in terms of share of global PPP-based GDP: China (16.4%), India (6.7%), and Indonesia (2.4%), ranking first, third, and tenth, respectively, in the world. Together, they accounted for nearly 80% of the region’s total economy and about 26% of the global economy. In contrast, the smallest of region’s participating economies—Bhutan, Fiji, and Maldives—each accounted for less than 0.01% of the global economy. Overall, the region’s PPP-based GDP per capita was $10,210, some 38% lower than the world average of $16,596. The region is also home to two of the world’s ten richest economies: Singapore was the third richest with a PPP-based GDP per capita of $93,981 - more than fivefold the world’s average, while Brunei Darussalam ($60,282) was the tenth richest. Seven economies in the region, namely, Thailand; Maldives; Malaysia; Taiwan, China; Brunei Darussalam; Hong Kong SAR, China; and Singapore had a PPP-based GDP per capita above the world average. At the same time, Nepal’s PPP-based GDP per capita ($2,890) was 83% lower than the world’s average. PPP-based AIC per capita is a useful measure of material well-being in a country as it reflects expenditures by individuals and households on sectors such as food, housing, health, and education, as well as the purchasing power of a consumer for the goods and services they wish to consume. Some economies in the region have a significantly smaller value for PPP-based AIC per capita than PPP-based GDP per capita. A large gap between the two may indicate high per capita levels of investments (as measured in GFCF), collective consumption by government, or a high value of net exports. The chart below shows that while Singapore has the highest PPP-based GDP per capita in the region at $93,981, its PPP-based AIC per capita is significantly lower at $31,966. Hong Kong SAR, China has the highest PPP-based AIC per capita of $42,371 which is 29% lower than its PPP-based GDP per capita of $59,927. Pakistan and Cambodia show the smallest percentage difference between the two measures. Hover over the interactive chart to see the data and filter the view using the controls and legend. Uses of the ICP Results The PPPs from the ICP are   in several   for monitoring the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of Agenda 2030 and in many other socioeconomic comparisons. Furthermore, the most recent ICP cycle provides benchmark and  . The results of the forthcoming ICP 2021 cycle will be critical in assessing both the impacts of the pandemic across the world and in Asia and the Pacific, and the subsequent recovery of economies. The ICP framework and methodology can also be applied to analyses looking at differences in expenditures and price levels within an economy. Vietnam’s General Statistics Office (GSO) undertakes subnational comparisons regularly and publishes results for its provinces via the  . The GSO benefitted from technical assistance from ADB and the World Bank during the initiative’s early stages in 2011. Furthermore, an exploratory ADB study of producing subnational PPPs in the Philippines through integrating the ICP and the national consumer price index was published through the  Regional Impact The participating economies have benefitted from ICP activities, and the ICP regional workshops organized by ADB have improved statistical capacity in price data collection and in the compilation of national accounts statistics (see Chapter 7 of the latest  ). Furthermore, statistical offices in participating economies have adopted useful ICP practices such as data validation techniques and structured product descriptions in their own price collections and national price index compilation activities. The regional workshops and trainings have also served as avenues for statistical staff to learn from the practices and experiences of other participating economies. Looking Forward The 2021 ICP cycle is now underway with price collection surveys initiated in the region. ADB has conducted a series of virtual workshops in recent months for the ICP teams of participating economies to discuss the program’s conceptual framework, operational and technical guidelines, and regional work plans. Face-to-face meetings have been replaced by virtual online meetings, allowing more participants to attend, including price collectors, field supervisors, and headquarters staff members and officers. Additionally, ADB plans to continue to strengthen the statistical offices’ capacity in ICP implementation and the production of subnational PPPs, contributing to the research in comparison-resistant areas such as housing, while continuously enhancing the information technology tools needed for efficient data management and improved quality of the PPPs generated by the program. A version of this blog is also published at the Asian Development Bank’s  Guest Blogger Guest Blogger Statistician, Development Data Group, World Bank Join the Conversation Economic income in Asia and the Pacific is still low. To this end, we should deepen reforms and fully open up; adhere to a democratic market economy, popularize education, and cultivate talents! This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Demystifying ICP Purchasing Power Parity calculations using Python Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Demystifying ICP Purchasing Power Parity calculations using Python April 07, 2021 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] Every few years, results from the   make headlines around the world as they  . Underlying these results are purchasing power parities (PPPs) for countries across the globe. PPPs are exchange rates or conversion factors that enable us to convert one currency into the other while also—and this part is key—adjusting for the fact that prices of the same goods and services may differ between countries. In this blog we describe the calculation steps and the main formulas needed to estimate ICP PPPs using a worked-out coded example. To help with the task, we use mock average price data and  , a free, open-source programming language with an ever-growing community of users around the world. Details of ICP PPP calculations have been publicly available for years. The   and Chapter 5 of the ICP 2017 report   provide a general account of the calculation of ICP PPPs. The   also provides an overview of the calculation process. Furthermore,   provides details on the choice of formulas used in the calculations and their properties as they apply to ICP PPPs. However, ICP PPP calculations are not the most intuitive concept, and providing another way to access this information will be a helpful refresher to some, and a useful initiation to those who are programming-adept but newcomers to ICP PPPs. Example of estimating PPPs using Python What follows are code excerpts, using a  , sequentially organized to understand how ICP PPPs are estimated. Click each tab to see the Python code applied at each step. The full notebook with the entire code set in an executable online environment is available   (no installations are required, but it may take some time to load the first few times). We start by loading the input dataset containing mock average price data and other relevant country-level information. A review of the price and expenditure data required to estimate PPPs is provided in the World Bank Data Blog  ## Load libraries  statsmodels.api  # Load price data  "price_data.csv"  pd.read_csv(data) # Show full dataset 
This mock dataset contains four countries ('country') and three basic headings ('bh'): garment; rice; and pork. 'Basic headings' in the ICP literature refer to detailed expenditure categories containing similar item varieties, for example the 'Rice' basic heading contains several rice varieties. It is also the lowest level of aggregation for which PPPs are first calculated. The different item varieties in each basic heading are noted under the 'item' column, for example, within 'garment' there are three item varieties, identified as 'garment 1', 'garment 2', and 'garment 3'. Finally, an average price in the local currency unit of each country is reported for each item ('price') and information on the relative importance of each item in a country's consumption at the basic heading level is included for each item priced in the importance column ('imp'). Following the guidelines provided by the  , countries assign a weight of '3' to items identified as 'important' within a given basic heading and a weight of '1' to items deemed unimportant It should be highlighted that in practice the full   consists of 155 basic headings with the number of items within each varying from one basic heading to another. Also, not all countries are able to report prices for all items. These two realities are reflected in the example: some basic headings contain more items than others, and prices for some items are missing in some countries. Basic heading PPPs PPPs are first estimated at the basic heading level resulting in a set of several PPPs per country, one PPP for each basic heading per country. The estimation procedure involves averaging price relatives for individual items from different countries within each basic heading to obtain basic heading-level PPPs. This is done via a regression method known as the weighted country product dummy (CPD-W). The CPD-W is carried out within each basic heading by regressing the logarithm of the observed country item prices on item dummies (one for each item) and country dummies (one for each country other than the numeraire). The CPD-W method also incorporates the country reported item-level importance indicators discussed earlier with the idea of "down-weighting" unrepresentative items during the calculation. 
This refers to the currency against which all the estimated PPP values will be compared. In the case of the global PPP results, the numeraire is the US dollar. In this case, we select the currency of 'country2' as the numeraire and say that 'country2' is the base or reference country. prices.bh.unique(): prices[prices.bh  tempdf.loc[:, [x  tempdf.columns  x.startswith(( np.log(tempdf[ sm.WLS(y, X, wts_cpd.fit() res_eparams np.exp(res.params) "Basic Heading:" 'Exponentiated Parameters:' res_eparams) l_coef.append(res_eparams) 
l_bh.append(bh) np.array(l_coef,  np.round(coef, # round to 4 decimals  #store column heads of X as a list #%% replace PPPs that were exp(0)=1 with 'np.nan' Above-basic heading PPPs Next, PPPs estimated at the basic heading level are aggregated using national accounts expenditure values in local currency units for each country as weights. The aggregation method involves constructing bilateral PPPs for each pair of countries, using basic heading-level national accounts expenditure values as weights from each country in turn. First, a Laspeyres-type bilateral PPP is calculated between each pair of countries and then a Paasche-type bilateral PPP. The geometric mean of the Laspeyres- and Paasche-type bilateral PPPs gives us the Fisher-type bilateral PPP between each pair of countries in the dataset. #Load basic heading expenditure values #Should contain bh and countries with prefix c "bhdata_exp.csv"  pd.read_csv(code, #Sort cols with numeraire as col1 df.columns.tolist() 
columns.remove(first_col) 
columns.insert( ,first_col) df.reindex(columns,  sorting(c_numeraire,df_bh) #sort rows alphabetically df_bhexp.sort_values( 
As a last step, the Gini-Éltető-Köves-Szulc (GEKS) method is applied to the matrix of Fisher-type bilateral PPPs. GEKS PPPs are calculated between each country relative to the numeraire or base country. To this end, the first step is to divide each country row of the Fisher-type bilateral PPP matrix by the row of the numeraire country. Each row will then contain two direct PPPs (each country to itself and directly to the numeraire country) and n−2 indirect PPPs (each country to the numeraire country via each of the other third countries), where n equals the total number of countries in the dataset. Finally, the GEKS PPP for each country relative to the numeraire is given by the geometric mean of the direct and indirect PPPs in each respective country row. GEKS PPPs are considered 'multilateral' because the GEKS procedure uses both direct and indirect PPPs and thus takes into account the relative prices between all the countries as a group. The GEKS method is needed to make the Fisher-type bilateral PPPs transitive and base country-invariant. Transitivity means that the PPP between any two countries should be the same whether it is computed directly or indirectly through a third country. Base country-invariant means that the PPPs between any two countries should be the same regardless of the choice of base or numeraire country. #Calculate GEKS multilateral ppps 
##requires the earlier nangmean function np.zeros(shape)  # zero 'country x country' matrix  # gets the number of rows  geks[row][col] nangmean(fi[row] (df_bhexp.columns))) # as we need a vec- tor of ppps, not a matrix #..one PPP per country, or col of bhexp df  geks_vec[:,col] nangmean(geks[col, omean over each row, w/ each col rebased to country in col1  np.array(geks_vec) 
In the above example we showcased the main steps to calculate PPPs. Information about the overall ICP methodology is provided on the  International Comparison Program (ICP), The World Bank Consultant  Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  The ICP in Western Asia: turning the spotlight on Arab economies Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  The ICP in Western Asia: turning the spotlight on Arab economies January 12, 2021 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] Since the release of the International Comparison Program’s (ICP) global results from its 2017 cycle in May 2020, the program’s regional implementing agencies have been releasing their own results and analyses covering their participating economies. These regional programs are the building blocks of the global program, and in this series of blogs we are highlighting each to explore how the ICP is organized locally, what the regional ICP results tell us, and what’s in store as the ICP 2021 cycle is launched.  is managed by the   (UN-ESCWA), which has served as the regional implementing agency from the ICP 2005 cycle onwards. UN-ESCWA coordinated twelve participating economies in the ICP 2017 cycle: Bahrain, Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, West Bank and Gaza, Sudan, and the United Arab Emirates. UN-ESCWA is one of the five regional commissions of the United Nations (UN) and works on fostering inclusive and sustainable economic and social development in Arab countries and on promoting regional cooperation. The World Bank’s ICP Global Office has been supporting the implementation of the regional program by providing technical assistance and channeling funding. Access to 2017 results  provides users with access to purchasing power parities (PPPs) and ICP results for the region’s economies, including the publication “ ”, released on December 10, 2020, and a  . The website also features informative videos, illustrative charts, interactive animations and testimonial videos. Furthermore, an   allows users to compare the real purchasing powers of different local currencies relative to one another and to the US dollar. Regional results PPP-based GDP for the Western Asia region stood at just over $5 trillion in 2017, contributing around 4% of the global economy. Saudi Arabia and Egypt were the largest economies in the region, at $1,566 billion and $1,263 billion, respectively. With a combined population of around 277 million, the 12 participating economies differ widely in PPP-based GDP and GDP per capita, and in their price level index at the GDP level. In general, Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) member countries were more expensive than non-GCC countries and had a higher per capita income. Comparing these economies with the rest of the world shows that Qatar was second only to Luxembourg in 2017 in terms of GDP per capita while the United Arab Emirates was in eighth place globally. Egypt was the least expensive country in the world, while Sudan was the third least expensive. Moreover, three Arab economies were ranked in the top 15 globally in terms of PPP-based per capita government spending, while four scored among the top 15 in PPP-based per capita investment spending, with Qatar taking on the first position globally. Regional impact Testimonials from economies in the region illustrate the benefits, and their experience, of participating in the ICP. Their statistical capacity has improved through ICP workshops and technical assistance provided by the ICP Western Asia team with support from the ICP Global Office on data collection, data entry, data validation, and the treatment of outliers. Furthermore, the regional team has focused on advancing the integration between the ICP and regular national price statistics work programs to produce new indices and enhance national capacities in the production of price indices. ICP Western Asia is also looking to build upon the use of PPP-based indicators in monitoring progress towards many of the Sustainable Development Goals. At the same time, national practitioners and policy makers are using PPP-based data to conduct cross-country comparisons and to showcase a country’s position within a region or sub-region, as well as for comparative analyses of competitiveness, price levels, wages, income and poverty, and for setting benchmarks for improvements. Following the successful computation of subnational PPPs in the United Arab Emirates in 2015, another round of subnational PPP production will take place for the United Arab Emirates, as well as for Egypt and Sudan. Looking ahead With the launch of the ICP 2021 cycle, the ICP Western Asia program has been developing and updating its regional ICP price surveys. The number of economies participating in the next ICP cycle is most likely to increase from the ICP 2017 under the regional guidance of UN-ESCWA. A shift to annual data collection has allowed the regional program to calculate PPPs for the interim years between the global ICP cycles, and, as a result, PPPs for the years 2011 to 2019 have been published to date. Furthermore, initiatives by UN-ESCWA to harness new technology and methods such as web-scraping in its price collection has enabled the region to continue collecting data throughout 2020, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, in conjunction with the traditional survey approach to price collection of household consumption items. Economic Statistician, United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (UN-ESCWA) Statistician, Development Data Group Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Global trading blocs through the lens of ICP 2017 results Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Global trading blocs through the lens of ICP 2017 results November 24, 2020 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] Global trade has increased more than fivefold over the last thirty years with the volume of worldwide exports growing from $4.3 trillion in 1990 to $24.8 trillion in 2019. This trade is facilitated through an intricate web of bilateral, multilateral and Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs) recognized by the World Trade Organization (WTO). As of November 2020, there were 305 active RTAs in force, significantly up from 22 active RTAs in 1990. In addition, a significant portion of these are directly linked to the rise of regional trading blocs with varying degrees of integration, from loose free trade agreements to full-fledged monetary unions. The latest of these is the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), announced on November 15th, 2020, which is set to become the largest trading bloc in the world, notably by incorporating China, which was not previously part of any trading bloc. Another notable development is the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), where trading is expected to begin on January 2021, according to the African Union. As trading blocs become increasingly influential actors on the world stage, we can compare their composition, size and characteristics using the latest data from the  , which provides purchasing power parity (PPP)-based measures of GDP and its expenditure components, as well as price level indices. An alternative approach is to use market exchange rate (MER)-converted GDP estimates; however, MER-based comparisons reflect both differences in economic outputs and price levels between the countries and, as a result, the size of higher income countries is inflated, while the size of lower income countries is depressed. PPP-based comparisons, on the other hand, reflect only differences in economic outputs, as PPPs control for price level differences between the countries, hence allowing comparisons of the true size of trading blocs and their constituent countries. Click through the data story below to explore the world’s trading blocs through the lens of the ICP 2017 results. ICP data can be downloaded through the   and the main results are visualized on the   and in the report  Consultant, International Comparison Program, Development Data Group, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Purchasing Power Parities for Policy Making: a Visual Guide to Using Data from the International Comparison Program Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Purchasing Power Parities for Policy Making: a Visual Guide to Using Data from the International Comparison Program  June 17, 2021 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] A year ago we   the release of the results from the 2017 cycle of the   (ICP). The purchasing power parities (PPPs), size of economies, and measures of price levels and per-capita expenditures produced by ICP 2017 provided a comprehensive view of the global economy prior to the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, multiple socioeconomic indicators have been updated using these new PPPs and several analyses and datasets drawing on ICP data have been published. Purchasing Power Parities for Policy Making: a Visual Guide to Using Data from the International Comparison Program  It is available as a PDF file for  , both of which allow the reader to explore interactive data visualizations and download the underlying data. The guide contains myriad applications of PPPs and ICP results by many organizations including Eurostat; the Food and Agriculture Organization; the International Energy Agency; the International Labour Organization; the International Monetary Fund; the International Telecommunication Union; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; the United Nations Development Program; the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; the World Economic Forum; the World Health Organization; as well as the World Bank amongst others. These applications are illustrated through seventy data visualizations of PPP-based indicators and analyses, together with descriptions of the policy areas in which they are used, and are organized under eleven chapters arranged by topic. These cover the size of the economy and price levels; poverty and inequality; trade and competitiveness; labor costs, wages, and social safety nets; food and nutrition; health; education; energy and climate; infrastructure; human development; and administrative uses. The visualizations include PPP-based indicators used in eight of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), such as energy efficiency, universal health access, and monitoring the share of people living below the international poverty lines. The guide also illustrates how   For example, the Global Competitiveness Index produced by the World Economic Forum uses PPP-based GDP as an input into assessing the market size of economies around the globe. PPP-based indicators also allow comparisons of expenditures made in specific sectors, such as health, education, and infrastructure. Furthermore, data collected by the ICP, such as the prices of goods and services and the wages of public sector employees, inform analyses resulting in global datasets on food security and public sector compensation. The guide also highlights the detailed data published by the ICP for the different expenditure components that make up the GDP. For example, PPPs are calculated for health goods and services, and allow users to compare price levels and expenditures on the health sector across countries and regions. The use of ICP methodology to estimate PPPs for regions and localities below the national level is highlighted in the guide. These subnational PPPs allow analyses of the differences in the cost of living across provinces and states, and across urban and rural areas, and examples from the UK, the USA, and Vietnam are included. Purchasing Power Parities for Policy Making: a visual guide to using data from the International Comparison Program  also includes an   of how the conceptual framework and methodology behind the estimation of PPPs dictates when they should, and should not, be used. It also includes a technical note detailing the data available from the ICP via the  , and the program’s underlying concepts, definitions, and classifications. More information on PPPs and the ICP is available on the   and through the  , while the report   presents an overview and results from the most recent ICP cycle. The guide is produced in collaboration with the ICP partner agencies: the African Development Bank; the Asian Development Bank; the Interstate Statistical Committee of the Commonwealth of Independent States; the Statistical Office of the European Union; the International Monetary Fund; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development; the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean; and the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia. We hope that this new publication inspires its audience to think more about how PPPs and data from the ICP can help in their analyses, including tracking the progress of the world’s economies and their citizens as they emerge from the global COVID-19 pandemic. [email protected] Director, Development Economics Data Group, World Bank Group Lead Economist and Program Manager, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Updated PPP-based productivity measures show steep increase in regions transitioning out of agricultural-heavy economies Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Updated PPP-based productivity measures show steep increase in regions transitioning out of agricultural-heavy economies September 02, 2020 This page in: New results from the ICP including purchasing power parities (PPP), price level indexes and PPP-based expenditures for reference year 2017 are now available at  . This blog series, edited by  , covers all aspects of the ICP and explores the use made of these data by researchers, policymakers, economists, data scientists and others. We encourage users to share their data applications and findings in this blog series via  [email protected] Purchasing power parities (PPPs) from the   (ICP) 2017 cycle have been used to update the World Development Indicators (WDI) labor productivity measure  . These data, available from 1991 onwards for around 200 economies as well as for regions and income aggregates, provide a comparison of output per worker in countries and regions across the world and are used to both explore progress towards   and monitor sustainable and inclusive growth within the World Bank’s  . Hover over the map below to see individual country data. North America records the highest regional level at $125,000 per worker in 2019 while Sub-Saharan Africa records the lowest level at $10,000. This data series, measured in constant 2017 PPP dollars and providing a temporal analysis, also shows the steep rise in productivity since 2000 in East Asia and South Asia: growth in both regions was nearly 150% over twenty years. Productivity also grew by over 40% in Sub-Saharan Africa, outpacing other regions. Growth was slowest in Latin America and the Caribbean, at just over 10% over the period. These productivity gains can be attributed in part to these regions pivoting away from predominantly agriculture-based employment to the industry and services sectors where, globally, value-added per worker was seven times that for agriculture in 2019. Sectoral change in other regions, where services have been dominant for many years, has been less dramatic. The recent World Bank report   explores the many other factors driving productivity across economies and regions and assesses the impact of COVID-19 on future growth.  Join the Conversation COVID-19 has impacted rural economy badly.Futuristics on  post-covid period will be desirable. We observe that our economy in Latin America, with an emphasis on Peru, has 70% of informal workers, and with almost 800,000 Venezuelan migrants. They should not add these variables to the recovery assumptions. In a country like Peru with the highest mortality from covid-19. What do you think. This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Metal prices stabilize amid moderate demand growth and rising input costs Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Metal prices stabilize amid moderate demand growth and rising input costs December 29, 2021 This page in: Metallurgical plant and hot liquid iron casting. Photo: Aleksandar Malivuk / Shutterstock This blog is the last in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  The World Bank’s Metals and Minerals Price Index stabilized toward the end of 2021 but remains more than 35 percent higher than a year earlier. Metal prices have been supported throughout the year by supply curtailments due to energy shortages and shipping bottlenecks as well as strong demand. The exception is iron ore, where a rebound of exports from key producers (including Australia and Brazil) and cuts of steel production by China pushed prices back to pre-pandemic levels. Iron ore prices were down 55 percent during the period June to November 2021 compared to a year earlier. Following a nearly 50 percent increase in 2021, the Metals and Minerals Price Index is projected to fall slightly in 2022 as supply bottlenecks ease further. The impacts of the Omicron wave and the Evergrande crisis, however, pose significant downside price risks in the short term. Over the longer term, the global energy transition away from fossil fuels is expected to increase demand for some metals, particularly aluminum, copper, nickel, and tin. Moderate growth in global demand.  China’s metal demand (world’s largest metal consumer), however, grew very little in 2021Q3, owing to environmental policies to control pollution and the Evergrande real estate crisis. Overall, demand for some metals has been constrained (e.g., lead, due to microchip shortages impacting auto production) while for others it has strengthened (e.g., tin, due to growth in electronics and photovoltaic installations). Supply is driven by input costs and shortages.  For example, lockdowns interrupted mine production of tin in Indonesia and Malaysia. Zinc was affected by power shortages in key producing regions, including China and Europe, and supply disruptions in Mexico. In the region of Yunnan, China, power shortages limited zinc mining and smelting. Power shortages in China and COVID-related restrictions in New Caledonia limited nickel production. Higher input costs, and energy supply shortages affected the aluminum market as well, including China (which introduced “dual policies” aimed at limiting energy intensity and overall energy consumption), India (where aluminum companies faced energy shortages due to limited coal supplies), and in Brazil (where output was curtailed by weak hydroelectric power generation). Economist, World Bank Group Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Join the Conversation I am interested in blogs on commodity. Please keep me informed of developments in  commodity markets This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Beverage market outlook: Spiking prices amid supply concerns Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Beverage market outlook: Spiking prices amid supply concerns December 22, 2021 This page in: Coffee prices increased in the second half of 2021, driven by supply shortfalls and disruptions. Photo: portumen/Shutterstock This blog is the eighth in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  The World Bank’s Beverage Price Index, which gained more than 10 percent in 2021Q3, remains nearly 30 percent higher than a year ago. The surge in coffee prices due to supply shortfalls and, to a lesser extent, the increase in cocoa prices, contributed to the strength of the index. The index is expected to stabilize in 2022, following a projected increase of 13 percent in 2021. Coffee prices at historically high levels. Arabica averaged above 5$/kg during October-November 2021, the highest level since 2011. Frost in Brazil (the world’s dominant Arabica supplier) and dry weather in Vietnam (the world’s main Robusta producer) reduced global coffee supplied by 11 percent in the current season. Following a projected 30 percent increase in 2021, prices are expected to stabilize in 2022. However, the outlook is subjected to upside risks, as early indications show that Brazil’s supplies may fall below its long-term trend in the upcoming season. Cocoa prices remain stable. , especially Côte d’Ivoire, the world’s biggest supplier. Global grindings—a measure of global demand—are expected to increase by more than 3 percent. Cocoa prices are expected to remain stable amid adequate global supplies. 
Tea prices remained stable in 2021Q3, with increases in Mombasa (Kenya) offsetting declines in Colombo (Sri Lanka) and Kolkata (India). The strength of prices at the Mombasa auction reflects weather-related shortfalls in East Africa, especially in Kenya, the region’s largest tea exporter; its tea production is estimated to be 10 percent lower in 2021. In contrast, production was higher for other key exporters such as India and Sri Lanka, where production increased by nearly 20 percent during the first three quarters of 2021 compared to the same period of 2020.  Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Research Analyst, Prospects Group, World Bank Join the Conversation I like it . Would like to read every time you make publications A lot of knowledge here This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Precious metals outlook hinges on pandemic fight and monetary policy direction Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Precious metals outlook hinges on pandemic fight and monetary policy direction December 15, 2021 This page in: Precious metals prices declined in the second half of 2021, driven by weak investment and physical demand. Photo: © t.max/Shutterstock This blog is the seventh in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Precious metal prices trended lower in the second half of 2021, reflecting declining investor sentiment and soft physical demand. Gold prices have been relatively more resilient but were weighed down by outflows from gold-backed exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and slowing central bank purchases. Silver prices slumped on waning industrial demand, while platinum and palladium prices plunged due to weak autocatalyst demand. Precious metal prices are anticipated to ease in 2022, but there is high uncertainty arising from the Omicron variant and monetary policy stances. Gold prices rose slightly in October and November, after a marginal decline in the third quarter of 2021, supported by lower real interest rates  Gold prices have lost strength in the second half of the year, driven by outflows in gold-backed ETFs from North American investors and slowing central bank purchases. The yield on 10-year inflation-indexed U.S. Treasury securities fell to -1.06 percent in November, as a rise in inflation expectations outweighed slight increases in nominal interest rates. Looking forward, the uncertainty over the Omicron COVID variant could push gold prices higher due to safe-haven demand. A tightening of monetary policy, however, could result in higher real interest rates and reduce the appeal of gold. Silver prices have retraced markedly since mid-November.   Both countries are major users of products containing silver, such as electronics, solar panels, and photographic equipment. Near-term prospects for silver largely rest on the strength of the global economic recovery, which is being tempered by a resurgence of COVID infections, particularly in Europe and the United States. Platinum and palladium prices have fallen sharply since early May, driven by the slump in vehicle production.  Autocatalysts account for one-third and four-fifths of platinum and palladium demand, respectively. Both metals are used in catalytic converters of car engines to reduce emissions. On the supply side, South African mine production has rebounded strongly and has more than offset outages at two Russian mines. Platinum and palladium prices are expected to fall in 2022 due to the continuing semiconductor shortage. Researcher, Centre for Strategic and Policy Studies, Brunei Darussalam Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Join the Conversation Love this blog.  Please include me. This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Raw material commodity prices: Stable with some divergence Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Raw material commodity prices: Stable with some divergence December 08, 2021 This page in: A woman harvests cotton in Maharashtra, India. Photo: © CRS PHOTO/Shutterstock This blog is the sixth in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Agricultural raw material prices diverge. Stronger-than-expected consumption outlook supports cotton prices.  Cotton prices, which reached a 10-year high in October 2021, responded to the positive outlook for global consumption.   On the supply side, global production is projected to increase by 6.4 percent, led by gains in Brazil (16 percent) and the U.S. (27 percent). Cotton prices are expected to increase by 5 percent in 2022. Subdued demand keeps natural rubber prices in check.  Weakening global demand due to lower-than-expected vehicle sales—linked to the semiconductor shortage—have kept prices in check (two-thirds of natural rubber is used in tire manufacturing). On the supply side, global output increased by 5.8 percent during January-October 2021 compared to the same period last year. Most key suppliers registered increases, including Thailand (1.2 percent), Indonesia (7.1 percent), Vietnam (12 percent), and India (13.9 percent). Weaker-than-expected demand and recovering supplies is expected to exert further downward pressure on prices (projected to be 10 percent down in 2022). Risks to the price outlook hinge on supply considerations: how quickly the semiconductor sector will return to pre-Covid levels (which will affect demand for tires), and the impact of mobility restrictions due to the recent COVID-19 outbreak. Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Research Analyst, Prospects Group, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Food commodity markets: Stable with considerable upside price risks Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Food commodity markets: Stable with considerable upside price risks November 29, 2021 This page in: A rice farmer in Southeast Asia examines her crops. Photo: © Attasit saentep/Shutterstock This blog is the fifth in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Food commodity prices stabilize.  After gaining momentum earlier in the year due to supply shortfalls, high input costs, and stronger-than-expected demand, most food commodity prices stabilized during the past two quarters following optimistic assessments for the current crop season. However, prices for many commodities are well above pre-pandemic levels—the World Bank’s Food Price Index remains at its highest level since 2013.   The outlook is subject to various risks, including energy prices, diversion of food commodities to biofuel production, and the emerging La Niña weather pattern. Supply estimates for most crops have been revised upward.  Conditions for the rice crop have been broadly stable in Asia, world’s main rice producing and consuming region. Wheat is an exception due to reduced output in the United States and the EU. Global supplies of food commodities is projected to increase in 2021-22.  This is higher than the 30-year average growth of 45 mmt. Similarly, the supply of edible oils is expected to grow by nearly 3 percent, or 6.6 mmt, led by an increase in palm and soybean oil production. The aggregate stocks-to-use ratio is projected to drop marginally.  Although this is the fourth consecutive annual decline, the ratio (which consists of 12 food commodities) remains high by historical norms. Rising energy and fertilizer prices pose upside risk to agriculture prices.  The surge in   poses a significant risk to the food commodity outlook. For most grain and oilseed crops, energy represents a significant cost component through direct (fuel prices) and indirect channels (chemical and fertilizer prices). Higher energy prices, which surged during 2020Q3, have already  , in turn increasing the cost of food production and exerting upward pressure on food prices. The emerging La Niña could pose an upside risk for some food prices.  The emerging La Niña weather pattern could reduce the yield of crops growing in the Southern hemisphere due to drier-than-normal conditions. However, in the Northern hemisphere this winter could increase the yields of some crops, such as maize and wheat. Diversion of food commodities to biofuels could exert upward pressure on food prices.  If these policies become effective, global food prices could come under further upward pressure. Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Research Analyst, Prospects Group, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Soaring fertilizer prices add to inflationary pressures and food security concerns Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Soaring fertilizer prices add to inflationary pressures and food security concerns November 15, 2021 This page in: A farmer uses a tractor to apply fertilizer to a field of crops. Photo: © Vladimir Konstantinov/Shutterstock This blog is the fourth in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Near-record high fertilizer prices.  Prices have been driven by surging energy costs, supply curtailments, and trade policies. High fertilizer prices could exert inflationary pressures on food prices, compounding food security concerns at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic and climate change are making access to food more difficult. Surge in input costs.  Surging natural gas prices in Europe resulted in widespread production cutbacks in ammonia—an important input for nitrogen fertilizers—while escalating thermal coal prices in China led to a rationing of electricity use in some provinces and forced fertilizer factories to cut production. Energy prices also increased in the United States as Hurricane Ida hampered natural gas production in the U.S. Gulf Coast and several large fertilizer companies had to declare force majeure as production was halted. Trade policies.  China’s exports of DAP (diammonium phosphate) and urea account for approximately one-third and one-tenth of global trade, respectively. Adding to supply concerns, Russia recently announced restrictions on nitrogen and phosphate fertilizer exports for six months, effective December 1, 2021. Growing divergence in spot and contract prices.  The global potash market may be subjected to further volatility following the imposition of sanctions on Belarus in August 2021 by several countries (including the European Union in June, and the United Kingdom, the United States, and Canada). Outlook and risks.  Urea prices are anticipated to decline marginally in 2022 as feedstock costs moderate. DAP prices are projected to remain elevated in the first half of 2022 on expectations of tight supply unless Chinese export restrictions are relaxed earlier than anticipated. MOP contract prices are forecast to surge in 2022 following significant increases in spot prices. Upside risks to the outlook include further supply disruptions while downside risks (especially in the longer term) include intensification of environmental policies restricting fertilizer use. Senior Agriculture Economist, Development Economics Prospects Group Researcher, Centre for Strategic and Policy Studies, Brunei Darussalam Join the Conversation This article interesting reading as we in this part of region are already experiencing major shortages which will be exacerbated by export restrictions being imposed by some countries. We need more fertilizer manufacturers in Nigeria Would love to continuously receipt updates concerning the fertilizer industry. I think the big worry is the fall in cereal production in the western world as a result of this, plus the pressure on production from climate change may trigger very fierce food inflation next year. 
Is there a risk this may cause political instability anywhere? 
As a farmer I see the general reaction is a major reduction in inputs and hope for higher prices Professor of Soil and Water Sciences and food security Kindly advice on trending prices for Potassium Sulphate, Phosphoric acid, Ammonium Sulphate, potassium nitrate, magnesium Sulphate, Zinc Sulphate . This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Energy market developments: natural gas and coal prices surge amid constrained supply Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Energy market developments: natural gas and coal prices surge amid constrained supply November 08, 2021 This page in: A refinery worker performs a visual inspection. Photo: © noomcpk/Shutterstock This blog is the third in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Commodity Markets Outlook Natural gas and coal prices soar.  The increase in prices reflects a sharp increase in demand for electricity generation, especially in China and India, and constrained supply in part due to adverse weather events. Prices dropped back somewhat at the start of November, however, as China ramped up coal production, and seasonal demand eased. Demand rebounds as the global economy recovers.  Demand for natural gas and coal has rebounded as the global economy recovers from the pandemic, both for electricity generation and industrial use.  Adverse weather events limit supplies.  Adverse weather events also impacted natural gas and coal production, with flooding reducing coal production in several countries, including China and Indonesia. The supply of coal was also affected by policies, including China’s ban on coal imports from Australia, which disrupted international trade of coal. Constrained coal and hydro production caused China’s imports of natural gas to rise sharply. However, coal production rose sharply in October amid government efforts to increase supply. Increasingly integrated global energy market.  The high correlation of natural gas and coal prices demonstrates how these markets have become increasingly integrated. This is largely due to the growing importance of liquefied natural gas (LNG).   Europe in particular has become increasingly reliant on imports of LNG as domestic production has dwindled. As a result, a shortage of a fuel in one region, such as coal in China, not only can lead to higher coal prices in other regions, but can also exert upward pressure on the prices of substitutes such as natural gas. Risks to the outlook.  In the short term, prices of coal and natural gas remain highly vulnerable to weather-related conditions. Global inventories are currently very low compared to previous years, especially in Europe, where the current level of inventories remains well below their five-year average. That increases the risk of shortages and price spikes, particularly if the winter is colder than usual. More broadly, climate change and evolving weather patterns will increasingly affect the demand for these commodities by increasing energy use for cooling or heating due to extreme temperature swings. Weather-related natural events also affect the production of energy, both by their impact on renewable generation, as well as production of fossil fuels. Broader impacts.  The recent price surge in coal and natural gas prices ( ) is having an impact on other commodity markets.   Food production has also become more expensive because of high fertilizer prices and fuel costs. The surge in energy prices also highlights some of the challenges posed by the energy transition, notably ensuring there is sufficient investment in low-carbon energy sources to replace lower investment in fossil fuels. Reducing the share of fossil fuels in the energy mix can help reduce countries’ exposure to price volatility of these commodities. Senior Economist, Prospects Group Research Analyst, Prospects Group, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Oil market developments—rising prices amid broader surge in energy prices Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Oil market developments—rising prices amid broader surge in energy prices November 02, 2021 This page in: A crew member looks onto an oil platform at sunrise. Photo: © Opsorman/Shutterstock This blog is the second in a series of nine blogs on commodity market developments, elaborating on themes discussed in the October 2021 edition of the World Bank’s  Commodity Markets Outlook Oil prices continue to recover.  Oil prices have also been supported by higher natural gas prices, which increased oil demand for heating and electricity generation. Crude oil prices are expected to average $74/bbl in 2022, before declining to $65/bbl in 2023 as global production recovers. Continued recovery in oil demand.  The strongest recovery has been in China, where demand is currently more than 10 percent higher compared to its pre-pandemic level, while it remains slightly below for OECD and non-OECD countries excluding China. Supply disruptions have supported prices  Production in the United States was affected by Hurricane Ida while OPEC and its partners (OPEC+) produced almost 1 million barrels per day (mb/d) below their quota due to maintenance and supply outages, especially for Angola, Kazakhstan, and Nigeria, according to data from the  Falling oil inventories.  Global oil production is forecast to see a robust recovery of around 6 mb/d in 2022, as OPEC+ unwind their production cuts over the year, and output in the United States increases by about 1 mb/d.  In the short term, upside risks include greater use of crude oil as a substitute for natural gas, and the possibility that U.S. shale recovers slower than expected. To the downside,   Further out, there is a risk that future supply growth will be weaker than demand, which could lead to sharply higher prices. Investment in new oil production has been relatively weak since the 2014 oil price collapse, and investment fell further in 2020, particularly among oil majors. Senior Economist, Prospects Group Research Analyst, Prospects Group, World Bank Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Promoting trust in data through multistakeholder data governance Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Promoting trust in data through multistakeholder data governance December 13, 2021 This page in: 
The exponential growth in the production and use of data, intensified by the COVID-19 crisis, has created vast amounts of new data. These data have incredible potential for development: from  , to providing marginalized communities with access to online services. At the same time, these data can be   to cause harm to individuals or groups, either willfully or through weak or improper data governance and management practices. Enabling trusted and effective use of data for development requires the adoption of rules and   for the formatting, archiving and dissemination of data. Similarly, ensuring the value from data is equitably distributed requires clear rules on who has access to and control over data infrastructure, and even  This is the role of data governance. It is about designing and implementing the norms, rules, and infrastructure that will foster trust by shaping the way people, organizations, and governments can legitimately collect, use, and share data to create sustainable value that is realized equitably. All stakeholders have a role in governing data effectively  This participatory approach is the basis of what we call multistakeholder data governance. It is designed to culminate in shared principles and rules that foster engagement and buy-in. But the fairness, inclusivity, transparency and effectiveness of   is critical  in promoting trust and legitimacy, and therefore incentivizing participation in the data economy. Key stakeholders include governments, the private sector, civil society organizations (CSOs), academia, and individual producers and users of data. These actors may have competing incentives, play different or overlapping roles,  and may have more or less power to influence the decision-making process. For example, governments take the lead on policy making and regulation, implementation and enforcement of rules, and fostering multilateral coordination and cooperation. CSOs, academia, and the private sector can contribute technical expertise and their perspective as end users to enrich the quality of policies, laws, and regulations. The private sector and nongovernment organizations (NGOs) can also develop principles (such as the  ); technological solutions; and standards (such as the  ), including through standard-setting organizations, and consortiums. Another good example is the  CSOs and the private sector can also support better data governance practices through advocacy and by building the capacity and literacy of data users. Two good examples are the programs offered by the  ’s “collaborative laboratory,” which conducts training sessions and workshops and provides forums to share knowledge. Multistakeholder data governance approaches should be purpose-driven and enable meaningful engagement  For sector-specific rules, it may not be necessary or appropriate to open consultation to stakeholders beyond the relevant industry and interested parties. Moreover, initiatives do not necessarily need to start with government. For instance, in Finland, the University of Helsinki and private sector partners developed a   (AI) with the aim of training one percent of the country’s population.  After scaling the program to over 250 private sector participants, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Tax Authority used the course to train their staff. Here, buy-in grew gradually to involve naturally interested stakeholders from the public and private sectors, led by academia, to fulfil the policy objective of making Finland competitive in AI. Starting with a specific sector can also help create momentum, while putting in place foundations that can be scaled.  , an NGO whose members include fishermen, indigenous peoples, and students, monitors fish migration and water quality in the Amazon basin to guide policy making in an industry critical to the livelihood of more than 30 million people. However, if the data policy issue has government-wide and society-wide impact, such as in the use of   in the public sector, the process needs to have a broader coalition of stakeholders, including underrepresented groups. For example, after calling for a moratorium on facial recognition and sparking a public debate on the ethical and legal implications of biometric technology, the Ada Lovelace Institute established the   in 2020. The Council’s recommendations to determine what forms and uses of biometric technologies are acceptable were informed by a wide variety of views. Within the chosen forum, the participation of non-government stakeholders must be meaningful. This requires   into the decision-making process. Mere consultation of these groups by government is not sufficient to foster trust and legitimacy and may even backfire. This does not mean participation processes must be formal: bottom-up contributions to nonbinding decision-making processes can be meaningful if they are integrated and   are created. Effective multistakeholder data governance is challenging to implement in practice A lack of transparency and openness of the proceedings, or barriers to participation, such as prohibitive membership fees, will impede participation and reduce trust in the process. These challenges are particularly felt by participants from low- and middle-income countries (LICs and LMICs), whose financial resources and technical capacity are usually not on par with those of higher-income countries. These challenges affect both the participatory nature of the process itself and the inclusiveness and quality of the outcome. Even where a level playing field exists, the effectiveness of the process can be limited if decision makers do not incorporate input from other stakeholders. Notwithstanding the challenges, multistakeholder data governance is an essential component of the   that strengthens the  . In practice, this will require supporting the development of diverse forums—formal or informal, digital or analog—to foster engagement on key data governance policies, rules, and standards, and the allocation of funds and technical assistance by governments and nongovernmental actors to support the effective participation of LMICs and underrepresented groups. At the global level, this will also require international cooperation to support consensus-building, while creating an environment for people from LICs and LMICs to meaningfully contribute as “standard setters” rather than as mere “standard takers.” As we experiment with different models for such approaches, it’s important to share experiences and lessons learned. Watch out for the space here as we continue the   on this topic. See below the first of a series of dialogues discussing the opportunities and challenges of multistakeholder governance: To download the full report, click  To learn more about the  World Development Report 2021 , please visit   See UN Report of the Working Group on Internet Governance (WGIG):   This represents Finland’s aspiration to occupy a niche as world leader in practical applications of AI and remain competitive in the global AL industry, according to Economy Minister Mika Lintilä. See Politico, Finland’s Grand AI Experiment,   For details, see Spotlight 8.2: Promoting Citizen Science in the Amazon Basin:  Counsel, Data and Digital Development, Legal Operations Unit (LEGOP), World Bank [email protected] Senior Data Scientist  Guest blogger Join the Conversation Many thanks This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Creating an Integrated National Data System – Lessons from Estonia, Ghana, and Mexico Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Creating an Integrated National Data System – Lessons from Estonia, Ghana, and Mexico July 13, 2021 This page in: Image from the 2021 WDR: Data for Better Lives chapter 9 What goals are good goals? Psychology tells us that   Easy goals don’t sufficiently challenge us to improve our performance, while unattainable goals tend to demoralize us and result in poor performance. The sweet spot is in the middle: choose a goal that’s tough yet achievable, and performance improves by directing attention, mobilizing effort, and increasing persistence.   Chapter 9 of the   sets out an ambitious goal for all countries: build an integrated national data system (INDS).   It puts people at the center and promotes the use and reuse of data by all participants while safeguarding against misuse. For countries struggling to produce even the most basic statistics, this vision of an integrated national data system may seem unattainable. Yet, over the past years, some countries moved significantly closer to fulfilling this vision. In this blog, we highlight three of them. Their progress shows that across differing contexts, there are specific and attainable goals for realizing this vision and leveraging greater value from data for development. In the  , we propose differentiated goals depending on the level of data maturity: At low levels, countries can prioritize establishing the fundamentals of a national data system. Once the fundamentals are in place, countries can seek to initiate data flows. At advanced levels of data maturity, the goal is to optimize the system. Photo: Truba7113/Shutterstock Ghana’s statistical system made   in 2010 when adopting revised guidelines for the System of National Accounts (shifting from the 1968 to 1993 guidelines) resulted in a 63% increase of its nominal GDP. Overnight, Ghana moved from a low-income to middle-income status. While the event was taken as an occasion to declare  , for Ghana itself, the revision was a reflection of a maturing data system. It was the result of a   that followed global standards and was made possible by new data becoming available. Since then, Ghana has further invested in the foundations of its data system. In 2016, the National Information Technology Authority (NITA), responsible for implementing Ghana’s ICT policies, opened a   to host all government applications while offering excess capacity to the private sector. Its   for the development of statistics 2018-2022 explicitly recognizes the private sector, nonprofits, and researchers as important data users. And in 2019, it passed the  providing the Ghana Statistical Services (GSS) with a leading role in the national statistical system and a mandate to set standards for data generation across ministries, departments, and agencies. Building on these foundations, Ghana is initiating data flows between the different participants of the national data system. For example, NITA’s Ghana Open Data Initiative created a  , hosting more than 300 datasets in open data format from various government agencies. GSS developed a   presenting and disseminating Ghana’s data on the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) both for national and international audiences. A   between GSS and the parliament seeks to institutionalize data use in policymaking—for example, by training officers in the parliament on available data sources. And when the Covid-19 pandemic hit, GSS   with the private sector for analyzing the effect of mobility restrictions using anonymized mobile phone data. Ghana’s national data system can also build on a strong and inclusive civil society. For example, the   by the NGO Ghana Centre for Democratic Development disseminates administrative data on various sectors through district-level rankings, bulletins, and a free SMS platform.  Ghana’s progress is also evidenced by the  —with a score of 62, it is among the top performers in Africa. Photo: WitR/Shutterstock At the center of Mexico’s data system is the National Statistical and Geographical Institute (INEGI), a national statistics office built on strong fundamentals. Economic and financial crises in 1983 and 1994 created the need for   following international standards while technocratic governments strengthened internal data demand. INEGI’s institutional foundation was further improved in 2008 when it became an autonomous body, shielding it from political interference. A good relationship with the Ministry of Finance ensured a steady and stable flow of funding.  States and local municipalities collect and share 600 datasets with the public via the central government’s open data network,  , following centralized data quality standards. InteroperaMX facilitates the   and therefore the efficient delivery of services. For example, birth certificates, issued at the state level and required as proof of identity for at least 45% of all services at the federal level, can be accessed online through the interoperability of the national population registry and state-level databases. And Mexico is one of the first countries to grant data   rights to individuals, enabling them to obtain and transfer personal data as they switch between services or product providers. Mexico’s data system also integrates academia, civil society, and the media. INEGI offers researchers access to confidential data through its  , a data enclave on its premises, while also actively engaging the civil society and media through regular briefings and rewarding outstanding use of their data with prizes. In addition to promoting innovative data use by non-governmental actors, the government of Mexico also actively learns from data innovations from academia and civil society. For example, randomized impact evaluations, originally pioneered by academics, are now part of the government’s policymaking practice through the National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy ( ), which implements and commissions evaluations of the government’s social policies. Photo: ESB Professional/Shutterstock.com Estonia is at the   of digital government.  Estonia was not predestined to become a leader in this space. When regaining independence in 1991 as an upper-middle-income country and   its legacy systems, it started building its national data system from scratch. The new country quickly established the necessary fundamentals: It pushed programs to increase   and in the 1990s, it was   to formulate an e-government strategy. It also defined clear institutional  : a Central Information Officer (CIO) operating at the political-strategic level in the Cabinet Office and the Estonian Information Service Authority, charged with the central management and development of basic digital infrastructure. With the fundamentals in place, Estonia initiated data flows with  : (i) eID, a system of digital and mobile identification, and (ii) X-Road, an open-source data exchange layer that allows linked databases to automatically exchange information. These technologies were flanked by both enablers and safeguards. Adopting the once-only principle meant that citizens’ data could only be collected and stored once by the government, therefore requiring departments and agencies to share data with each other. But also data protection was built-in by design. For example, only citizens can authorize the aggregation of their data, and on the  , citizens can always keep an eye on who is sharing their data and for what purposes. According to  , this transparency and data protection were key in building trust in the system. 
The variety of steps taken by these countries illustrate that no size fits all—in the end, each country needs to carve out its own path towards an integrated national data system. Nevertheless, their experiences also show that   With a functional INDS in place, users can safely access public and private data sources, learn from one another’s analysis, and gain insight that can help to improve lives. To download the full report, click  Read more about Chapter 9 of the report  To learn more about the  World Development Report 2021 , please visit  [email protected] Consultant, Development Data Group, World Bank Economist, Development Data Group, World Bank Economist, Development Data Group, World Bank Lead Economist [email protected] Senior Data Scientist  Join the Conversation This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Building gender aware data systems is critical to create a level playing field for women and girls Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Building gender aware data systems is critical to create a level playing field for women and girls May 03, 2021 This page in: Photo: © Stephan Gladieu / World Bank Data can create economic and social value, which can be multiplied through repurposing and reuse. But  To advance an affirmative answer to this question, the   calls for a   that ensures better representation for marginalized people. This means that data captured and analyzed in data systems reflect the needs of ALL people. While data are generally undersupplied and underused for the  , they are severely undersupplied and underused for the  , who represent half of the world’s total population.  How severe are the gaps in data on women and girls?  of the WDR 2021 for a discussion).  : WDR2021, Data for Better Lives. Based on contributions from Mayra Buvinic (Center for Global Development), Lorenz Noe (Data2x), and Eric Swanson (Open Data Watch), with inputs from the WDR 2021 team. Prior to the pandemic, only ten of the 54 gender-specific indicators (19%) in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were widely available (that is, based on international standards for measurement), and only a fourth of those gender-specific indicators were from relatively recent data (2010 or later). In seven of the ten countries where the recent economic contraction is severest, less than 38% of SDGs are available by sex.  have consistently highlighted the  gender data gaps  that are critical for designing and evaluating policies. Gender data that are available are improving lives  is a global pandemic.   Using data from the   we can see that at least 200 million girls and women have undergone female genital mutilation (FGM), and in at least 11 countries, more than half of women ages 15–49 have undergone FGM. We know these facts because representative population-based studies have been undertaken to understand the prevalence of VAWG. These studies have used a standardized methodology in more than 90 countries across all regions and all income groups. Adapted from Kashiwase and Pirlea 2019. FGM = female genital mutilation; UNICEF = United Nations Children’s Fund. A long-running and rich example of the value of granular data are the Demographic and Health Surveys, which cover topics such as HIV/AIDS and gender-based violence. Over the last few decades, data from 82 of these surveys, disaggregated by sex, have been used as inputs for developing laws banning domestic violence, developing HIV education programs, and more.  , a survey on gender-based violence revealed that more than half of women have experienced physical, sexual, or emotional abuse; that nearly half of these had physical injuries as a result; and that seven in eight did not seek any help. These data spurred a public discussion about the topic, informed the National Strategy on Gender Equality, and introduced counseling, health, legal, and shelter services for women subject to violence at home. What can we do to improve gender data gaps? First, advance the development, dissemination, and implementation of international standards that will improve the granularity, accuracy, comparability, and policy-relevance of gender data.  For example, relying on proxy respondents to elicit individual-level information—a common cost-saving mechanism in large-scale household surveys—has been shown to produce wrong estimates of gender differences in  . Likewise,   have been shown to blur the lines between unemployment and informality and distort the role of women in national labor markets. Initiatives such as the   are contributing towards the development and adoption of best practices in individual-level data collection. Second, invest in data production on specialized topics that are not covered by standard surveys—including on-time use and gender-based violence. It is critical to promote existing standards while developing improved methods for these types of data collection. Third, make gender data and analysis publicly available and accessible in a transparent manner.   These efforts should be supported by initiatives to strengthen gender data literacy among both government officials and the general populace to encourage better understanding and use of gender data. Fourth, promote interoperability and the safe integration of gender data sources to maximize their value for development. For instance, the Gender-Based Violence Information Management System (GBVIMS) facilitates the safe, ethical, effective, and efficient standardization and coordination of service-based data, which can be combined with data representative of a given population to yield important insights. While such efforts are critical, it is also important to ensure that investments in gender-based violence data systems do not divert limited funds and staffing away from the provision of services to the survivors of violence. Separate streams of investment—and greater investment—in service provision and data systems are necessary.   Notwithstanding the opportunities that big data and machine learning approaches offer, using algorithms in this way can amplify discrimination against individuals and reinforce existing racial, gender, and economic inequalities. As one example, women, especially in low- and middle-income countries, have limited access to mobile phones, the internet, and bank accounts, which limits their representation in data that are used in training machine learning models for targeting interventions or behavioral insights. When women are missing, less visible, or reflected in an unrepresentative way in training data, policies, rules, or programs based on machine learning algorithms will amplify those biases. Finally, even though the pandemic created new demands for statistics, it also interrupted the supply. More than half of low-income and lower-middle-income countries reported that the COVID-19 pandemic   ability to produce socioeconomic statistics. This problem requires immediate attention and building effective, gender-aware data systems will require sustained financial and human capital investments. To download the full report, click  To learn more about the  World Development Report 2021 , please visit  [email protected] Senior Data Scientist  [email protected] Senior Economist Join the Conversation This is indeed an insightful  article relating to gender data. We need to create more gender disaggregated data for improving the lives of women n girls but due to pandemic , the large scale surveys  in india 
 such as econonmic  census and population Census enumeration could not take place. Great article!   I have always been amazed by HOW FEW SDG targets and indicators were agreed to in the SDG challenge.   Certainly it may help speed up progress on this goal more discussion could be focused on "SDG5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls everywhere, AND its indicator 5.1.1 Whether or not legal frameworks are in place to promote, enforce and monitor equality and non-discrimination on the basis of sex This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  Improving data infrastructure helps ensure equitable access for poor people in poor countries Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  Improving data infrastructure helps ensure equitable access for poor people in poor countries May 06, 2021 This page in: Image from Chapter 5 of the  2021 World Development Report: Data for Better Lives An explosion of data Global data traffic has increased one thousand times over the last 20 years. Data travel thousands of kilometers along this seamless global data infrastructure supply chain at breathtaking speeds of 200,000 kilometers per second—meaning that digital data can, in principle, circle the globe five times within a second. This explosion of data creates an ever-growing demand for data infrastructure.  Without modern data infrastructure at the national level, countries are unable to provide affordable and reliable connectivity to their population. At the same time, without access to broadband infrastructure at the local level, people cannot gain access to the wealth of data that exists, nor can data about those people be captured—so that their needs and preferences can be taken into account in the design and provision of public and private services. The  World Development Report 2021, Data for Better Lives  advocates for improving fairness in the global data system by addressing inequities in the availability of data infrastructure, both inequities between people and inequities between countries. Connecting countries  Due to lack of competition and good governance, such modern data infrastructure is much less prevalent in LICs than elsewhere (Figure 1), bringing disadvantages in terms of cost, speed and performance. Figure 1: The global fiber-optic cable submarine network reaches all corners of the world, but data infrastructure is unevenly developed PeeringDB, Interconnection Database,  ; PCH Packet Clearing House, Packet Clearing House Report on Internet Exchange Point Locations (database), accessed December 14, 2020,  ; TeleGeography, Submarine Cables (database),  The starting point for national data infrastructure is the establishment of Internet Exchange Points (IXPs), which allow domestic data traffic to be exchanged locally, without the need for the data to travel vast distances to reach overseas IXPs, incurring significant costs and time delays in the process. For example, Latin America spends around US$2 billion a year for international bandwidth—a sum that could be reduced by one-third through greater use of IXPs. Overall, countries relying on overseas exchange of data have fixed data charges that are 35 times as high as those with full modern data infrastructure, and mobile data charges that are seven times as high. While the development of IXPs does not call for huge investments, governance arrangements are critical to their success. Two contrasting stories from East Africa are instructive in this regard. In Djibouti, DJiX acts as a regional hub for data exchange that effectively serves the East Africa region, however, due to a domestic market monopoly, local internet users in Djibouti nonetheless face very high data charges. The situation is different in Kenya, where KIXP operates as a nonprofit with a multi-stakeholder board, attracting a wide diversity of participants including international content and cloud providers that help to improve the affordability and performance of data services in the country. Once IXPs are established, countries need to create an environment for the private sector to invest in Colocation Data Centers, which—among other things—allow popular internet content from overseas to be stored locally, greatly reducing the cost and increasing the speed of usage. However, at present, there are more data centers in California than the whole of Sub-Saharan Africa. For the private sector to be willing to invest in Colocation Data Centers, a highly stable physical and regulatory environments is required, combined with abundant low-cost renewable energy. These conditions can be challenging for low and middle-income countries to meet. Cloud computing services overseas are becoming increasingly critical to access state-of-the-art software services and take advantage of artificial intelligence. However, hyperscale global cloud data center providers operate in just a handful of larger emerging markets such as Brazil and South Africa. While it may not be feasible to develop cloud computing in smaller LMICs, the provision of cloud on-ramps—cheap, fast, and secure direct links to cloud computers that bypass the public internet—is emerging as a valuable alternative. Cloud on-ramps do not yet exist in any LICs, but are available in some MICs that have the Colocation Data Centers to host them. Connecting people , and this share (which is known as the “usage gap”) has stubbornly persisted over time even as coverage has increased (Figure 2). The situation is even worse in some developing regions, with this usage gap rising to 49% of the population in Sub-Saharan Africa, and as high as 64% of the population in South Asia—the latter being equivalent to 1 billion people in all. There is also an important gender dimension to internet uptake with globally 250 million fewer women than men using the internet, many of these concentrated in Asia. Econometric analysis found that educational attainment and relationships with friends who are already online are the strongest drivers of internet uptake. Figure 2: The percentage of the population with an internet signal that fails to make use of data services (usage gap) has remained stubbornly high particularly in certain developing regions  WDR 2021 team, based on 2015 and 2018 data in International Telecommunication Union. 2018. ICTs, LDCs, and the SDGs: Achieving Universal and Affordable Internet in the Least Developed Countries. Thematic Report: ITU Development, LDCs and Small Island Developing States Series. Geneva: ITU.  , with almost 70% of people overall indicating that they do not understand what the internet is or how to use it. While this has not typically been a focus of universal access policies in the past, some countries are beginning to take serious action to improve digital literacy. In Rwanda, the government trained 5,000 youth as Digital Ambassadors to go out into the rural areas with the aim of training 5 million people over a four-year period 2017-21. After digital literacy, affordability is the second largest barrier to uptake cited by about 15% of those surveyed. Efforts are also underway to reduce the cost of purchasing a smartphone, which can absorb as much as 80% of the monthly budget of poor households. Ethiopia has formed a partnership with Chinese manufacturers for local assembly of smartphones to reduce their cost. More widely in Africa, MTN launched a low-cost smartphone costing just $20, while in India Jio had managed to drive costs as low as $9. Some countries, such as Costa Rica and Malaysia, are even allowing Universal Service Funds to be used to subsidize the purchase of smartphones for disadvantaged groups, as opposed to the more traditional practice of subsidizing network rollout by operators. Even those who do use data are consuming too little to reap the full value of it. In low-income countries, average data consumption stands at just 0.2 gigabytes per month compared to just over 7 gigabytes per month in high-income countries (Figure 3). This has prompted extensive debate regarding how much monthly data consumption is “enough” to meet basic needs or mounting social expectations. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, A4AI had argued for a subsistence consumption threshold of 1 gigabyte per month, but this falls far short of what may be needed to support resilient remote working and schooling arrangements during crisis situations. Research undertaken for the WDR 2021, suggests that under normal circumstances, 0.6 gigabytes per month is adequate to support basic functions such as newsgathering, financial and commercial transactions, and accessing government services. However, adding even a modest amount of video streaming whether for education, employment, or entertainment rapidly takes the requirement up towards 7 gigabytes per month. Figure 3: Inequities in mobile data consumption across country income groups and regions are huge  WDR 2021 team.  Data are for 2018. Figures include averages of 119 economies with data. GB = gigabytes. Competition among mobile operators remains one of the most powerful tools to promote access. Both Cambodia and India have witnessed a dramatic expansion of 4G penetration following the competitive entry of mobile network operators into the market. Intensifying competition triggered a huge drop in prices from initial levels of $4-5 per gigabyte per month to under $0.20 per gigabyte per month in both of these countries. More affordable prices led to a surge in demand for data services with consumption soaring from less than 1 gigabyte per month to around 7 gigabytes per month; comparable to levels in high-income countries. Achieving equity through infrastructure Going forward,   To achieve this vision, efforts will need to expand beyond the traditional focus on rollout (and continuous upgrading) of mobile networks into remote rural areas; important as that continues to be. Increasingly, policy-makers will need to pay closer attention to demand-side barriers, such as digital literacy and handset affordability, as well as ensuring that the whole system is underpinned by modern national data infrastructure to support the efficient exchange, storage, and processing of data. To download the full report, click  Read more about Chapter 5 of the report  To learn more about the  World Development Report 2021 , please visit  Chief Economist, Infrastructure, World Bank [email protected] Digital Development Specialist, World Bank Digital Development Global Practice Young Professional, Digital Development Global Practice, World Bank Join the Conversation I just read the blog and found it very interesting and informative. I have gone through the blog and found it very interesting and informative. This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  How much should governments spend on data? Toggle navigation Main navigation Published on  How much should governments spend on data? April 21, 2021 This page in: Image from Chapter 2 of the 2021 World Development Report: Data for Better Lives Some years ago, researchers documented that marathon finishing times follow a special pattern. Many runners finish just ahead of 3:30 hours, 4:00 hours, and other 30-minute thresholds while few people finish just after those thresholds. There is no physiological reason to believe that runners are much more capable of finishing 42.2 kilometers in three hours and fifty-nine minutes than in four hours and one minute. Nonetheless, the reason for the observed pattern is obvious. Individuals set targets for themselves and such targets influence their behavior. Distribution of marathon finishing times  The dark bars highlight the density in the minute bin just prior to each 30-minute threshold. Individuals are not alone in setting and being influenced by targets. Countries too set targets in various domains and change their policies in response to these targets. Denmark, for example,  . Not coincidentally, this is precisely the decades-long target that rich countries should devote to ODA. Because of this relationship between targets and actions, international cooperation is anchored in targets. This is most evident in 169 targets associated with 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) – the most ambitious agenda ever laid out for the welfare of our planet. In addition to the SDG targets, several international targets exist regarding the allocation of government resources. To name a few examples, the   urges countries to allocate at least four to six percent of GDP and/or at least 15 to 20 percent of total public expenditure to education, while the Abuja Declaration urges countries to spend at least 15 percent of their annual budget to improve the health sector.   encourages countries to set  “nationally appropriate spending targets for quality investments in essential public services for all, including health, education, energy, water and sanitation, consistent with national sustainable development strategies.” Such spending targets are leveraged by sector specialists during their budget negotiations and can nudge governments to prioritize funding for areas in need of resources. Conversely, domains with no spending targets might have a harder time convincing the Ministry of Finance of their budgetary importance. Spending on data is a good case in point. The  2021 World Development Report: Data for Better Lives , makes the case that government data can have a transformational impact on individuals’ lives and yet that funding is lacking for foundational data products, tools, and analysis. Decision makers in budget offices may not fully understand how much funding is needed to produce high-quality data or may lack the incentives to prioritize data investments. One way to increase the priority given to financing of data would be to establish a target for the government expenditure on data, likely as a fraction of GDP or total government expenditure. Unlike in the domain of health and education, no such target currently exists for data. Several factors complicate creating an international target on data spending. One reason is that there can be great returns to scale in data spending. This means that a populous country is unlikely to need to spend the same fraction of GDP or government expenditure on data than a less populous country. There are returns to scale in other domains as well, but with respect to data, which, unlike schools and hospitals, require less physical infrastructure and government employees, the returns to scale are undoubtedly greater. A second and more fundamental reason why creating a public expenditure target is difficult is that unlike in most other domains, spending on data spans several government agencies. This means that figuring out exactly how much countries spend on data is challenging. One way of making this more tractable would be to focus on spending on the national statistical system. A target could be derived with a view towards the resources needed to fully fund the national statistical plan or be based on the spending of peer countries that have achieved sufficient funding. Yet systematic cross-country data on this are incredibly hard to get by. Somewhat ironically,  Without such data, how can one determine what the target should be? How much   governments spend on data or on the national statistical system more narrowly? Though data are sparse, we do have some data. Most prominently, through SDG indicator 17.18.3,   tracks the number of countries with full funded national statistical plans. In addition,   by colleagues at the same institution estimates how much it will cost for developing countries to meet three different ambitions for statistical systems. A low ambition scenario finds that it will cost IDA and IBRD countries $2.9 billion USD annually to support the statistical production of measuring the SDGs. A medium ambition scenario finds that it would cost $4.2 billion USD per year to, in addition, fund capacity building activities, and in a high ambition scenario, the annual cost is estimated at $5.6 billion to implement all activities under the  . Separating these figures by IDA and IBRD and expressing them as a share of GDP and government expenditure allows for a rough estimate of what data spending targets could be: Spending targets on the national statistical system as a share of GDP and government expenditure  Authors’ calculations based on the sources above. Such calculations reveal that   A high ambition target for IBRD countries is a tenth of that; 0.01% of GDP or 0.1% of government expenditure. The low ambition target cuts all these figures in half. Compared to the health and education targets mentioned above, these figures are small. Yet, the size of the figures should not distract from the size of the challenge of mobilizing such financing either domestically or through ODA. So far, too many countries’ national statistical systems are severely underfunded. For them securing this funding is certainly no walk in the park. Rather, it is a marathon requiring building a culture of data use and tough budget negotiations. Perhaps the availability of spending targets can get some countries over the finish line a little bit faster. To download the full report, click  Read more about Chapter 2 of the report  To learn more about the  World Development Report 2021 , please visit  Lead Economist [email protected] Senior Economist Economist, Development Data Group, World Bank Economist, Development Data Group, World Bank Join the Conversation The government's own consumption should be minimal; the government's public expenditure: education and health should meet the minimum needs of the society. The expenditure of a democratic government is transparent and subject to social supervision. On the contrary, an authoritarian government is opaque and cannot be supervised; it hides corruption and danger! Transparent government reveals data of expenditure. However, transparency still does not ensure reduction in corruption to a large extent. Thank you for the opportunity in participating in the six (6) weeks world bank program on : Data for Better Lives , .. The low level of funding of data systems and infrastructure is one reason why some developing countries have remained under-developed. Low level funding of data implies poor access to data and insufficient data for development activities This site uses cookies to optimize functionality and give you the best possible experience. If you continue to navigate this website beyond this page, cookies will be placed on your browser. To learn more about cookies,   End footer Bottom row  